Descriptions and Body Copy for Website
Bio
Riley Ragains is a graphic designer, photographer, and multi-medium artist. She received a B.F.A. in Graphic Design from The University of Alabama in May 2025 and is now working on her M.F.A. in Visual Communications and Design at Jacksonville State University. With graphic design being her primary medium, her work frequently includes hand-lettered and simple illustrative elements. Her work draws inspiration from her personal struggles as a mentally ill, queer artist and seeks to convey her deepest emotions. 
Artist Statement
Although I dabble in many mediums, my main focus lies in graphic design and photography. Raised in a military household by artistic parents, I spent my early life moving across the United States. Through this, I learned to observe the world around me and draw inspiration from wherever I can. While I appreciate many types of art, I find myself drawn to the Romantic and Baroque periods. These periods resonate with me, especially the works created by my Catholic ancestors. Their grand cathedrals and complex artworks tell stories of faith and history that I find deeply moving.
  
Seeking to express my innermost emotions and experiences, a significant part of my art reflects my journey as a queer person living with mental illness. By playing with dark lighting and distinct angles, I aim to evoke strong emotions and tell meaningful stories. Each artwork aims to take the viewer on a journey, offering comfort and understanding. I want my art to communicate a simple yet powerful message: "You are not alone; I have felt this too."
Design
A collection of some of my graphic design work, mostly featuring brand concepts and designs. 
Beetle Brews
Beetle Brews is a small coffee truck inspired by the coffee beetle’s love for java beans. The logo features a beetle illustration with the wings mimicking the shape of a coffee bean and "Beetle Brews" hand-lettered beneath. Each menu item is named for a beetle species native to Alabama and is set up in a three-row style.
Poseidon’s Pearls
This is a pearl based jewelry brand influenced by the Greek god Poseidon. The logo is a modified type of “Poseidon” with the curve of the “d” meeting the tittle of the “i” in a pearl design. "Precious Pearls" is in a smaller, less script font tucked underneath “Poseidon”. The brand features a pearl and clam shell pattern and a simple jewelry box design.
Thible
French balloonist Élisabeth Thible was the first woman to fly, and sing, untethered. This airline takes its inspiration from her. The logo is typographic with the name typed out in meno and the tittle of the “I” is a star. The planes and uniforms are designed in their brand colors with the icon showing on the plane’s tail.
Thirteen Ways To Look At A Typeface
According to Michael Bierut, there are 13 reasons to pick a typeface. This book has all 13 reasons with a font to match the explanation. Bierut goes into extensive detail about each reason. The colors are true CMYK to mimic an overprint design.

Ceramics
An assortment of my ceramics works featuring dishware and hand-built sculptures as well as a major series of work. 
Dishware
A mix of wheel thrown and hand-built dishware, ranging from bowls to a teapot and mostly fired at cone 6.
Sculpture
Hand built sculpture work done with varying techniques. 
Feline Skulls
Felines vary in size from a tiny 12 inches long to a whopping 15 feet. The largest of all felines, the Siberian Tiger, can weigh anywhere from 303 to 990 lbs. The smallest of the group is the Rusty Spotted Cat which only weighs about 2 to 4 lbs. This project features both the largest and smallest feline as well as a domestic cat, Mountain Lion, and African Lion.
Photography
An assortment of different styles and types of photography. I have two major series one done with a Nikon DSLR D3300 and the other a 35mm Nikon FE. Most of the images are shot digitally but there is a film photography section.
First Time Project
Hozier's album Unreal, Unearth tells the story of Dante's narrative poem The Divine Comedy. In this poem, the speaker journeys through hell and how he eventually reaches paradise. The song First Time is linked to the first circle of hell, Limbo. This circle is for those who weren't necessarily sinful but unbaptized and therefore cannot enter Heaven. Here souls wander aimlessly, wishing for the nirvana they will never reach.
 
This song tells about the love that spurred on his journey into hell in the first place and the cycle of beginning and ending. Hozier said himself, “[it feels] like your world collapsing in on you, and then going again.”
​
The singer begins by explaining how unfit he felt in his body and how he hated his name before his love uttered it. This love made him forget his whole life and eased the pain in his soul. He tells of how each time they say his name, part of him dies and is born again.
 
He cuts off in a tangent about the gift of life and his presumable death. He lives on in the flowers his mother places on his grave and tells about how tumultuous and painful living is. How all creation inherently wishes and fights for the same thing.
 
He resumes with the story of his love and its end. He mentions their final fight and explains that the emptiness he feels has been with him since he was young. He wonders when was the last time his love said his name and how the final piece of him died yet another came alive.
​
The narrator's longing is akin to the idea of limbo - those in it are not being punished yet something will always be missing, something they will forever yearn for. Each time the lover calls to him the cycle begins and ends again.
​
DSLR Matte Prints, (4) 8x10 (6) 11x14 (1) 12x18, 2023

Who We Are Project
Another song from Hozier's album Unreal, Unearth, Who We Are correlates with the Fifth circle of Hell, the circle of Wrath. It is a song about identity and the terrifying imperfectness of the world. It tells the tale of the wrath of living, of learning who you are, and learning of all the time you have “wasted”.
​
The speaker discusses how difficult it is to accept who you are. We are born unknowing and we spend our lives discovering and creating ourselves. They open up with, and constantly circle back to, that our life, our identity is constantly slipping through our fingers. Something the speaker says you do not even notice until it is too late. With this they mention how all anyone wants is to be held with care by someone comforting, like a person from their past. They want to be held either tenderly and with care or tightly with fierceness.  They constantly reference the knife and water throughout the song. 
​
They touch on the way people waste their lives working on “someone else’s dream”, living up to expectations, or even their partner’s plans for them. You spend so much time thinking it is your dream and what you need to do only to discover it was not what you wanted at all. People think they are doing what they wanted or thought was necessary yet our interpretations are almost never completely accurate. It is hard to see through the haze and false notions, you almost never see the truth.
​
Silver Gelatin Prints, 8x10, 2025
Portraiture
In-studio portraits done as projects and for commissioned graduation photos. 
Self Portraiture
Two separate self-portrait based projects. The cork board collage takes a deeper look into me as a person and an artist, it is meant to be an abstract self-portrait. It features several short poems I wrote as well as photographs from important things in my living space. The other project is a series of images meant to convey the quiet joy of being alive.
Nature
Just a small collection of nature based photography mostly shot with a Nikon D3300. 
Film
A collection of 35 mm film photographs shot almost entirely with Nikon FE although the still life was done using a hand-made pinhole camera. The two collages were crafted using found prints from Jax State’s studio and the longer, colored collage won Honorable Mention in Photography at Jacksonville State’s 53rd Annual Juried Student Art Show.

